Hello and welcome to this first tutorial
where we're going to tackle
the first section of part one data pre-processing,
taking care of importing the training set.
As you can see, I already imported the libraries.
These are the essential libraries we're gonna use
to implement the RNN.
So we have NumPy, which will allow us to make some arrays
which are the only allowed input
of the neural networks as opposed to DataFrames.
Then we have matplotlib.pyplot, which we will use
to, of course, visualize the results
in the end on some very nice charts.
And of course, I also imported pandas
to be able to import the data sets and manage them easily.
Alright, so let's import them right now so that it's done.
So pressing command or Ctrl + Enter to execute.
There we go, we have our libraries
and now we're ready to import the training sets.
So as you can see, I'm importing the training set
and not the whole data set as opposed
to part one and part two,
and that's because I want to highlight the fact
that we are gonna train our RNN
on only the training sets.
The RNN will have no idea
of what's going on in a test set.
It will have no acquaintance
of the test set during its training.
It's like the test set doesn't exist for the RNN.
But then, once the training is done,
of course we will introduce the test set to the RNN,
so that it can make some predictions
of the future stock price in January 2017.
So that's why I'm importing only the training set right now
and then later on, after the training,
actually in part three, we will import the test set.
All right, so let's do this, let's import the training set.
So to import the training set, we first need to import
the data as a DataFrame, which we'll import with panda
using the read on this course CSV function.
But then remember we have to not only select
the right column that we need, which is the open Google
stock price but also we need to make it a NumPy array
because only NumPy arrays can be the input
of neural networks in Keras.
So let's do this, let's do these two steps.
First step, importing the data as a DataFrame.
So, I'm gonna call this DataFrame dataset_train
because we will have later on dataset_test,
but this time we are dealing with the training set.
So dataset_train, and now we use the pandas library,
which has a shortcut pd. and now the read_csv function
to which we're gonna input the name
of the CSV file we need to import.
And we need to input that name in quotes,
and so that name is Google_Stock_Price_Train.csv.
All right, I think it's all good.
Yes it is, perfect.
So with this line of code, we have the DataFrame,
and now, next line of code, we need to do two things.
First, selecting the right column that we are interested in,
that is the open Google stock price,
and second creating a NumPy array.
So, since we are creating a new NumPy array,
I'm gonna introduce a new variable here,
that this time I'm gonna call training_set.
This will be the training set
on which our RNN will be trained.
So, it's the real training set.
It will be containing the input data of the neural network.
And so training set, and now let's do the first thing,
that is to select the right column.
So to do that, we're gonna use the iloc method
to get the right index of the column we want.
And to do this, well of course we need
to take first our DataFrame.
So, dataset_train and then that's where we use
the iloc method to get this right index.
So iloc, and now remember we need
to add some square brackets, and first we need to take
all the lines that we want which are all the stock prices
from beginning 2012 to the end of 2016.
And to take all the lines, there is a trick.
It's just to add a column here saying
that we want everything from the beginning
at the left of the column to the end
at the right of the column.
And then after the comma, that's where we specify
the index of the column we want.
And so if we go back to our data set,
Google stock price train
which I opened in Google spreadsheets,
well you can see that this column is the second column
of the data set and therefore has index one,
because indexes in Python start at zero.
This has index zero, this has index one.
And therefore, the index we need
to take here is just index one.
However, remember there is a little trap here.
We cannot input the index one only, because we want
to create a NumPy array and not a simple vector.
And to do this, the trick is to take not a single index one,
but the range from one to two,
because ranges in Python have their upper bound excluded.
Therefore, the two here is excluded,
and therefore even by taking the range from one to two,
we are only getting the first index,
and this will make sure, eventually,
to have a NumPy array of one column.
We will see that in a second.
Alright so this code that we typed right now,
this part of code here, still creates a DataFrame,
but with only the column open of the Google Stock Price.
And now, to make it a NumPy array, we just need to add a dot
and values, and that creates a NumPy array.
Perfect, so we have what we need,
which is mostly the training set,
and therefore we're gonna check that everything's okay.
I'm going to select these two lines of code,
press command or Ctrl + Enter to execute.
And now I'm gonna go to variable explorer to check them out.
So there we go, as you can see, data set train
is a DataFrame, and training set is a NumPy array
of 1258 lines corresponding to the 1258 stock prices
between 2012 and 2016, and one column
which is the open Google stock price.
We will check it out right now.
So I'm gonna open the data set train,
that's the data set train, and I'm also gonna open
the training set my NumPy array.
There we go, training set.
So we can check very precisely that we have
the open Google stock price in the training set
with the same number of lines
that is the same number of stock prices.
So everything looks good and we have the NumPy array.
We don't have a vector, we have a NumPy array of one column.
Everything looks great, we are ready
to move on to the next step.
So I'm closing this and I'll see you in the next tutorial
for the next step, where we will apply
the right feature scaling to our data
to optimize the training process.
Until then, enjoy deep learning.